docs(pickers): Add KB for hidden or readonly picker textbox (#1627)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/pickers-readonly-hidden-input.md

---
title: Disable Typing in DatePicker Input and Always Use the Calendar 
description: How to disable typing in the Blazor date/time pickers and force users to always use the popup Calendar and TimeView.
type: how-to
page_title: Hide or Disable Typing in the DatePicker Textbox
slug: pickers-kb-readonly-dateinput
position: 
tags: telerik, blazor, datepicker, datetimepicker, timepicker, readonly
ticketid: 1597101, 1619245
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>
                DatePicker for Blazor, <br />
                DateTimePicker for Blazor, <br />
                TimePicker for Blazor
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

> How to disable direct typing in the DatePicker and TimePicker components? I want to restrict user to use only the Calendar and TimeView popups.

Reviewer: How about using a bullet list for the different forms of the question? This will add a clear structure to the description.

```suggestion
This how-to article answers the following questions:

* How to disable direct typing in the DatePicker and TimePicker components? I want to restrict users to use only the Calendar and TimeView popups.
```

How to force users to pick date and time only from the component popups?

How to hide the DateTimePicker input textbox and display the selected date on another label?

## Solution

> 1. Set the `Class` parameter of the DateTimePickers that should be readonly or hidden.

Author: "to" doesn't make sense here, as `Class` has no predefined values.
